add troubleshoot doc (#20684)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-python: sdk/identity/azure-identity/Troubleshoot.md

## Table of contents

- [Troubleshooting Default Azure Credential Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-default-azure-credential-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshooting Environment Credential Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-environment-credential-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshooting Service Principal Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-service-principal-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshooting Username Password Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-username-password-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshooting Managed Identity Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-managed-identity-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshooting Visual Studio Code Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-visual-studio-code-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshooting Azure CLI Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-azure-cli-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshooting Azure Powershell Authentication Issues](#troubleshooting-azure-powershell-authentication-issues)

## Troubleshooting Default Azure Credential Authentication Issues

### Credential Unavailable Error

> The `DefaultAzureCredential` attempts to retrieve an access token by sequentially invoking a chain of credentials. The `CredentialUnavailableError` in this scenario signifies that all the credentials in the chain failed to retrieve the token in the current environment setup/configuration. You need to follow the configuration instructions for the respective credential you're looking to use via `DefaultAzureCredential` chain, so that the credential can work in your environment.

Reviewer: `DefaultAzureCredential` doesn't raise `CredentialUnavailableError` (in any case). If all its constituent credentials do so, `DefaultAzureCredential` raises `ClientAuthenticationError`.

> Please follow the configuration instructions in the `Credential Unavailable Error` section of hte troubleshooting guidelines below for the respective credential/authentication type you're looking to use via `DefaultAzureCredential`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please follow the configuration instructions in the `Credential Unavailable Error` section of the troubleshooting guidelines below for the respective credential/authentication type you're looking to use via `DefaultAzureCredential`:
```

> Please follow the configuration instructions in the `Credential Unavailable Error` section of the troubleshooting guidelines below for the respective credential/authentication type you're looking to use via `DefaultAzureCredential`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please follow the configuration instructions in the `Credential Unavailable Error` section of the troubleshooting guidelines below for the respective credential/authentication type you want to use via `DefaultAzureCredential`:
```

| Credential Type | Troubleshoot Guide |
| --- | --- |
| Environment Credential | [Environment Credential Troubleshooting Guide](#troubleshooting-environment-credential-authentication-issues) |
| Managed Identity Credential | [Managed Identity Troubleshooting Guide](#troubleshooting-managed-identity-authentication-issues) |
| Visual Studio Code Credential | [Visual Studio Code Troubleshooting Guide](#troubleshooting-visual-studio-code-authentication-issues) |
| Azure CLI Credential | [Azure CLI Troubleshooting Guide](#troubleshooting-azure-cli-authentication-issues) |
| Azure Powershell Credential | [Azure Powershell Troubleshooting Guide](#troubleshooting-azure-powershell-authentication-issues) |

## Troubleshooting Environment Credential Authentication Issues

### Credential Unavailable Error

#### Environment variables not configured

> The `EnvironmentCredential` supports Service Principal authentication and Username + Password Authentication. To utilize the desired way of authentication via `EnvironmentCredential`, you need to ensure the environment variables below are configured properly and the application is able to read them.

Reviewer 2: nit: for consistency
```suggestion
The `EnvironmentCredential` supports Service Principal authentication and Username + Password authentication. To utilize the desired way of authentication via `EnvironmentCredential`, you need to ensure the environment variables below are configured properly and the application is able to read them.
```

##### Service principal with secret

| Variable Name | Value |
| --- | --- |
AZURE_CLIENT_ID | ID of an Azure Active Directory application. |
AZURE_TENANT_ID |ID of the application's Azure Active Directory tenant. |
AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET | One of the application's client secrets. |

##### Service principal with certificate

| Variable name | Value |
| --- | --- |
AZURE_CLIENT_ID |ID of an Azure Active Directory application. |
AZURE_TENANT_ID | ID of the application's Azure Active Directory tenant. |

> AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH | Path to a PEM-encoded certificate file including private key (without password protection). |

Reviewer 2: Because of Charles's recent PR (https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/pull/16384), this should also [accept a PKCS12 cert](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/identity/azure-identity/azure/identity/_credentials/environment.py#L45) now
```suggestion
AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH | Path to a PEM-encoded or PKCS12 certificate file including private key (without password protection). |
```

##### Username and password

| Variable name | Value |
| --- | --- |
AZURE_CLIENT_ID | ID of an Azure Active Directory application. |
AZURE_USERNAME | A username (usually an email address). |
AZURE_PASSWORD | The associated password for the given username. |

### Client Authentication Error

> The `EnvironmentCredential` supports Service Principal authentication and Username + Password Authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `EnvironmentCredential` supports Service Principal authentication and Username + Password authentication.
```

> Please follow the troubleshooting guidelines below for the respective authentication which you tried and failed.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
Please follow the troubleshooting guidelines below for your desired authentication method.
```

| Authentication Type | Troubleshoot Guide |
| --- | --- |

> | Service Principal | [Service Principal Auth Troubleshooting Guide](#troubleshooting-username-password-authentication-issues) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Service Principal | [Service Principal Auth Troubleshooting Guide](#troubleshooting-service-principal-authentication-issues) |
```

| Username Password | [Username Password Auth Troubleshooting Guide](#troubleshooting-username-password-authentication-issues) |

## Troubleshooting Username Password Authentication Issues

### Two Factor Authentication Required Error

The `UsernamePassword` credential works only for users whose two factor authentication has been disabled in Azure Active Directory. You can change the Multi Factor Authentication in Azure Portal by following the steps [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/authentication/howto-mfa-userstates#change-the-status-for-a-user).

## Troubleshooting Service Principal Authentication Issues

### Illegal/Invalid Argument Issues

#### Client Id

> The Client Id is the application Id of the registered application / service principal in Azure Active Directory.

Reviewer 2: nit: I would lower-case "client" to align with "tenant" and "client secret", and would capitalize "ID" here and elsewhere
```suggestion
The client ID is the application ID of the registered application / service principal in Azure Active Directory.
```

It is a required parameter for `ClientSecretCredential` and `ClientCertificateCredential`. If you have already created your service principal
then you can retrieve the client/app id by following the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#get-tenant-and-app-id-values-for-signing-in).

#### Tenant Id

The tenant id is te Global Unique Identifier (GUID) that identifies your organization. It is a required parameter for
`ClientSecretCredential` and `ClientCertificateCredential`. If you have already created your service principal

> then you can retrieve the client/app id by following the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#get-tenant-and-app-id-values-for-signing-in).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
then you can retrieve the tenant ID by following the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#get-tenant-and-app-id-values-for-signing-in).
```

### Client Secret Credential Issues

#### Client Secret Argument

> The client secret is the secret string that the application uses to prove its identity when requesting a token, this can also can be referred to as an application password.

Reviewer 2: Super nitpicky:
```suggestion
The client secret is the secret string that the application uses to prove its identity when requesting a token; this can also can be referred to as an application password.
```

> If you have already created a service principal you can follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-2-create-a-new-application-secret) to get the client secret for your application.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
If you have already created a service principal you can follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-2-create-a-new-application-secret) to create a client secret for your application.
```

### Client Certificate Credential Issues

#### Client Certificate Argument

> The `Client Certificate Credential` accepts `pfx` and `pem` certificates. The certificate needs to be associated with your registered application/service principal. To create and associate a certificate with your registered app. please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Client Certificate Credential` accepts `pfx` and `pem` certificates. The certificate needs to be associated with your registered application/service principal. To create and associate a certificate with your registered app, please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate).
```

### Create a new service principal

> If you're looking to create and use a new service principal, please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli) to create a new service principal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli) to create a new service principal.
```

> If you're looking to create a new service principal and would like to use that, then follow tne instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli) to create a new service principal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're looking to create and use a new service principal, please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/create-an-azure-service-principal-azure-cli) to create a new service principal.
```

## Troubleshooting Managed Identity Authentication Issues

### Credential Unavailable Error

#### Connection Timed Out / Connection could not be established / Target Environment could not be determined

> The Managed Identity credential works only on Azure Hosted machines/servers.

Reviewer: Arc and pod identity don't require hosting in Azure.
```suggestion
```

> Currently the Azure Identity SDK supports [Managed Identity Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently azure-identity supports [managed identity authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
```

> The Managed Identity credential runs only on Azure Hosted machines/servers. So ensure that you are running your application on an
> Azure Hosted resource. Currently Azure Identity SDK supports [Managed Identity Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
> in the below listed Azure Services, so ensure you're running your application on one of these resources and have enabled the Managed Identity on

Reviewer 2: We can probably remove the first suggestion to make sure the application is running on an Azure resource, since we mention it again later on in this paragraph
```suggestion
The Managed Identity credential works only on Azure Hosted machines/servers.
Currently the Azure Identity SDK supports [Managed Identity Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview)
in the below listed Azure services; ensure you're running your application on one of these resources and have enabled the Managed Identity on
```

[Azure App Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity?tabs=python) | [Configuration Instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity?tabs=python)
[Azure Kubernetes Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity) | [Configuration Instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity)
[Azure Cloud Shell](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/cloud-shell/msi-authorization) |  |
[Azure Arc](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/managed-identity-authentication) | [Configuration Instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/security-overview#using-a-managed-identity-with-arc-enabled-servers)
[Azure Service Fabric](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/concepts-managed-identity) | [Configuration Instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/configure-existing-cluster-enable-managed-identity-token-service)

## Troubleshooting Visual Studio Code Authentication Issues

### Credential Unavailable Error

#### Failed To Read VS Code Credentials / Authenticate via Azure Tools plugin in VS Code

> THe `VS Code Credential` failed to read the credential details from the cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The Visual Studio Code authentication is handled by an integration with the Azure Account extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`VisualStudioCodeCredential` integrates with the Azure Account extension.
```

To use this form of authentication, ensure that you have installed the Azure Account extension,
then use View > Command Palette to execute the Azure: Sign In command. This command opens a browser window and displays a page that allows you 
to sign in to Azure. After you've completed the login process, you can close the browser as directed. Running your application
(either in the debugger or anywhere on the development machine) will use the credential from your sign-in.

If you already had the Azure Account extension installed and had logged in to your account. Then try logging out and logging in again, as
that will re-populate the cache on the disk and potentially mitigate the error you're getting.

#### Msal Interaction Required Error

THe `VS Code Credential` was able to read the cached credentials from the cache but the cached token is likely expired.

> Log into the Azure Account extension by via View > Command Palette to execute the Azure: Sign In command in the VS Code IDE.

Reviewer: We wrap errors from MSAL Python, which doesn't have an equivalent of this exception. The error message is (I think) pretty clear in this case (see #19509), so I think you can just delete this section; the advice would be as above, log in again.

#### ADFS Tenant Not Supported

> The ADFS Tenants are not supported via the Azure Account extension in VS Code currently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ADFS tenants are not supported via the Azure Account extension in VS Code currently.
```

The supported clouds are:

> Azure Cloud | Cloud Authority Host

Reviewer: I think we can delete this table. These are the well-known clouds, but not the only ones we support, and the table doesn't help because you can't work around this error by authenticating in a different cloud.

--- | --- |
AZURE PUBLIC CLOUD | https://login.microsoftonline.com/
AZURE GERMANY | https://login.microsoftonline.de/
AZURE CHINA | https://login.chinacloudapi.cn/
AZURE GOVERNMENT | https://login.microsoftonline.us/

## Troubleshooting Azure CLI Authentication Issues

### Credential Unavailable Error

#### Azure CLI Not Installed

> THe `Azure CLI Credential` failed to execute as Azure CLI command line tool is not installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To use Azure CLI credential, the Azure CLI needs to be installed, please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli)
to install it for your platform and then try running the credential again.

#### Azure account not logged in

> The `Azure CLI Credential` utilizes the current logged in Azure user in Azure CLI to fetch an access token.

Reviewer: CLI isn't limited to authenticating users.
```suggestion
`AzureCliCredential` authenticates as the identity currently logged in to Azure CLI.
```

You need to login to your account in Azure CLI via `az login` command. You can further read instructions to [Sign in with Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).
Once logged in try running the credential again.

### Illegal State

#### Safe Working Directory Not Located

The `Azure CLI Credential` was not able to locate a value for System Environment property `SystemRoot` to execute in.
Please ensure the `SystemRoot` environment variable is configured to a safe working directory and then try running the credential again.

## Troubleshooting Azure Powershell Authentication Issues

### Credential Unavailable Error

#### Powershell not installed

> The `Azure Powershell Credential` utilizes the locally installed `Powershell` command line tool to fetch an access token. Please ensure it is installed on your platform by following the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.1) and then run the credential again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please ensure PowerShell is installed on your platform by following the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.1).
```

#### Azure Az Module Not Installed

> The `Azure Powershell Credential` failed to execute as Azure az module is not installed.
> To use Azure Powershell credential, the Azure az module needs to be installed, please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/install-az-ps?view=azps-6.3.0)
> to install it for your platform and then try running the credential again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/install-az-ps)
to install the Azure Az PowerShell module.
```

#### Azure account not logged in

> The `Azure Powershell Credential` utilizes the current logged in Azure user in Azure Powershell to fetch an access token.
> You need to login to your account in Azure Powershell via `Connect-AzAccount` command. You can further read instructions to [Sign in with Azure Powershell](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/authenticate-azureps?view=azps-6.3.0).
> Once logged in try running the credential again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in via the `Connect-AzAccount` command. See [Sign in with Azure Powershell](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/authenticate-azureps) for more information.
```
